hey what's up one of the things I'm
known for within the circle of people
who really care about debating and
taking action for the future of veganism
right now is that I have openly said in
the past that veganism is not a
community and the people who take this
more seriously respond to it more
positively and on the other hand a lot
of people respond to that statement in a
really kind of shallow way by getting
angry and complaining that I'm being
negative now it's not a negative
statement if you've heard what I've said
in earlier videos on this in discussing
the extent to which veganism is not a
community I'm engaging the viewer in
thinking about what it means to be a
community and even some very small and
powerless ethnic minorities within the
United States and Canada actually have
composed real communities Iranian
Americans are a very small minority
United States many of them arrived as
refugees not all some of them arrived
you know is really poverty stricken
refugees from Iran but not only they
have a real community that exists and
has you know community centers as places
you can go as offices and lawyers and
meetings and you know they do the things
community do they also have groups that
lobby Congress and they try to influence
the American government now I mean maybe
the ultimate example of this
historically is the Cuban exile
community in the United States I mean
nobody could say that Cuban Americans
are not a community there are several
communities and you know the different
communities don't necessarily get along
you know there are Cubans in Miami and
elsewhere and you know they have real
political organizations they have real
community centers I think they have a
couple of museums as I recall like
telling the history of their experiences
Cuban Americans and again many of them
arrived as poor refugees and exiles and
they built a real community now I
realize it's slightly provocative but
I'm not being negative in putting
forward the idea of challenging vegan
civil look do you know anywhere in the
world that vegans exist as a community
and in part and parcel a discussion I
was drawing out the conch
between the pretensions that vegans have
you no pretensions aren't evil but you
know we all got our pretensions to being
a community and movement and then
looking at well what about veganism with
in Taiwan what about veganism within
India veganism in places where cultural
history and religion actually do bring
in some aspects of community and that's
very problematic and challenging for
Western vegans to think about so look
people who took that line of thought
seriously tended to respond to a
positively they understood what I had to
say and say okay all right now we have
to think about what it means to be a
community in 21st century but there are
other people who maybe didn't listen to
what I had to say all the way through
who responded very negatively he said
this guy is being negative this were
thinking about what it means to be
negative if I was doing movie reviews
being negative means that i'm giving a
movie and a bad review maybe for no good
reason i'm being negative just to get
attention just to say really outrageous
things what a terrible movie this is
without really sincerely engaging with
material this is the sense of being
negative nishat I really think if you
watch the videos on this channel in many
ways I'm recklessly optimistic in many
ways the message i'm sharing with you is
positive and insanity for example
veganism is not a community you know and
there are many videos in this channel
talking about it saying look I would
love to be part of a V community I would
love to feel like a member cami I would
love it that what what is a community if
I die who's going to be at my funeral
the two examples happen views if you're
an iranian-american who's really part of
an Iranian exile community in the United
States you know you know there's
probably a funeral parlor as a specific
funeral home in graveyard associate with
your community and you know members of
the community are going to be there not
everybody but especially leaders the
community if you're a cuban-american
who's really part of that expatriate
exile community in Miami or somewhere
else you know oh they have their own
churches they have their own funeral
parlors and so on or they have a you
know maybe it's a Catholic Church other
people use but they're a special
associated with who's going to be at
your funeral
who's going to be at your wedding I'm
unemployed who's going to help me find a
job i mean if i were really a member of
the Jewish community here I would be
able to go to the rabbi and say you know
I'm looking for work she's in Judaism
it's also a way to find a husband or
wife you know we could people could
openly say to the rabbi well you know I
joined this temple because I was hoping
to meet a young woman and my old temple
I used to remember out there's no word
there you know birth death marriage
career yeah community is meaningful me
is a meaningful part of all these things
and Facebook groups where people give
each other the thumbs up and the check
mark is a meaningful part a meaningful
part of none of these things and having
the money and organization to put
together a legal challenge to lobby
government to bring a court case about a
particular set of apes that are the
property of a particular University that
are being tortured death what have you
having that depth and that mutual trust
in the cooperation that comes out of
community and again my message is really
positive in talking about that as a goal
in an aspiration worth having worth
thinking about especially if you live
somewhere where there's a significant
number of vegans but it's also really
important to recognize that's not the
situation we're in now so this is not a
shallow insult to people who are on
vacation in Thailand who hang out for
two weeks with other stoned yoga bums
and compare tattoos and go swimming in
the river pie that they're not members
of a community you think that's a
community you think next week there
isn't a different bunch of hippies with
dreadlocks who check into that same
hotel and Swift in that same river it's
not a community homeboy it's not not
even compared to the really low standard
of you know again Cuban exiles in my
earlier video I talked about in Toronto
the Sikh community the Sikhs are a tiny
ethnic minority in Canada but they are
really organized and they have
representation within the Labor Party
and the Conservative Party and they they
pull weight at City Hall and they have
lawyers and so on again measured as a
population
even of this measured as a percentage of
population even the city Toronto there
nobody but they have a real community so
there's somebody right what about vegans
we're nobody and we're nobody and we're
nobody and we want to come on the
internet in front like we're really
somebody well as potential there I hope
to see in the future but so this brings
me the Soviet to this video which is
that I also do not believe that veganism
is a philosophy and it's in this same
positive sense that I'm stating this
this critique and pointing this out to
you the original definition of veganism
which was amended in its wording a
little bit but still on the British
vegan society in its preamble it says
veganism is a philosophy that and what
Foles after that statement is you know a
very pragmatic approach of seeing people
who eliminate the use of animal products
exploitation of animals so the greatest
extent possible and practical but it
does begin with the statement veganism
is a philosophy that and a pretty
unenlightened crowd of guys I was
talking to you last night they were all
vegan were quite upset and offended when
I made a very simple and blossom of the
no I do not believe that veganism is a
philosophy I don't believe it exists as
a philosophy today in the future it
could things could change things to move
in that direction and I mean obviously
their reaction to that was they felt I
was taking something away from vegans
that was making it something smaller and
weaker than it really is by saying
openly this is not a philosophy and I'm
not i mean we're discussing the way
things are and where things are going to
go from here now what is a philosophy it
doesn't make veganism stronger if it's a
philosophy there are many many
philosophies in the world that exists on
paper but are hopelessly searching to
have any kind of practice any kind of
effect in the real world it's much
better to be a practice in search of a
philosophy than it is to be a philosophy
in search of a praxis all right so this
is not really a bad thing for vegans as
I've said in many of my videos on
politics when you just have a practical
meth
of social change that's really strong
because then you can unite people who
are left-wing right-wing centrists
people who are feminists people who
don't really care about feminism part of
the strength of veganism is the
diversity of people can bring together
in that sense many times we've talked
about this with like real politicians in
Canada of compared to the anti-nuclear
movement back in the 1980s in the 1980s
people with really different political
views and values were united briefly
because they wanted to reduce nuclear
arms and they were concerned about
nuclear waste and related issues now it
didn't last obviously after the Soviet
Union collapsed this alliance dissipated
but while it lasted you had people who
are interested in ecology people are
dressed in human rights people are
interests speak were anti-nuclear
because they supported Russia but you
also had right-wing people who did not
sympathize with Russia but he thought
this was an important issue they want to
engage with they were really worried
about you know the environment in the
future of mankind and nuclear weapons
policy what have you so yeah you can add
the people think that a single issue
cause people think that it praxis that
that that a diet that veganism is only a
diet that that makes it weaker that
it'll reach fewer people and be smaller
and the opposite is true if it's just a
diet everyone can get into it if it's
just a lifestyle everyone can get into
it if it's an ethical commitment that we
can talk about in isolation then it's an
ethical commitment a Christian can make
a Jew a Muslim of Buddhist the Hindu a
complete atheist a nihilist if it's an
ethical decision we can make in any
philosophy in any philosophical
framework that's stronger than being
tied to a particular philosophical
framework I'm going to bring this back
to something wise my father said to me
when I was a kid I was a really small
kid and you know when I was a kid for
whatever reason people used to always
have these debates came out of the
newspapers in the days of this is not
art every so often the newspapers would
have a photograph of some piece of
modern art that the government had paid
millions of dollars for and there would
be outraged and people would complain
this is not art and I remember my father
said to me very simply they're having
the wrong debate the question is whether
or not
this is great art whether or not this is
good art but the fact that it exists
that it's in a gallery and people are
willing to pay a million dollars for it
means the other debate is over we're not
having the debate of whether or not this
is art because it's in a gallery some
people like it some people will depend
therefore it's art whether or not you
like it whether or not it's great art
what its historical significance is
those things we can debate but this is
art or this is not that's not we're
debating anymore okay so with philosophy
likewise one of things I have to say to
you is we're past the point of debating
whether or not something is a philosophy
when it's in a book and it's in a
university there are courses taught on
it it's in the Department of Philosophy
it's on that philosophy shelf okay Hagel
I don't like them I think he's allows
the author I think it's a lousy
philosophy I think it's a bad philosophy
I think it should not be influential in
the 21st century but am I going to
debate with you whether or not it is a
philosophy no it's a real philosophy
that debate is over Karl Marx Marxism
it's a philosophy I disagree with it
I've read I've read tons of this stuff
but I'm very well read in European
philosophy lost years of my life doing
that you could say but um I've read all
these guys marks and Hegel and what have
you but we're not debating whether or
not Marxism is a philosophy it's obvious
anyone and it the book is on the shelf
the courses are taught in the university
okay with veganism this is not true and
it's not even remotely debatable or
conceivable that it's true it does not
exist in this form and it never has
which is interesting now the idea of
veganism has appeared in a number of
different unrelated philosophies
including ancient Greek philosophies if
you look into it the ancient Greeks had
some really interesting debates about
vegetarianism and killing animals
they're much more interesting than what
came up under Christianity at Fir for
many centuries so yes the idea has been
debated in a philosophical context but
no
veganism is not a philosophy and in the
definition of veganism to save veganism
is a philosophy that dot dot is really
misleading because that suggests that
veganism existed first as a philosophy
and then this just happens to be its
practice this just happens to be the way
people implement that philosophy and the
opposite is true this was a practice
this is the thing people did because
they felt it was important and various
people can add on a philosophy or attach
it to a philosophy afterwards I've said
before the single biggest example this
is happening right now when the Hindus
really get a hold of veganism it's going
to blow up Hinduism historically has not
been vegan it's been vegetarian and is
regarded milking cows is okay under
certain idealized conditions of the cows
being treated well blah blah blah but
it's very obvious that in terms of the
broadest and vaguest definition just
cultural Hinduism people who are
culturally Hindu and background can
obviously respond to the ethics and the
message of veganism in a big way and
then it will take off in any up so some
philosophy or maybe several competing
philosophies within India will get
attached to veganism but still I think
it's unlikely that veganism is really
going to be a philosophy and it's not a
bad thing the message i'm sharing with
you now is not negative local coming up
on fifteen minutes i want to give a
shout out to vegan cheetah i know most
people on this channel already aware of
both channels but in case you don't know
his work or maybe you only remember him
from like more than a year ago i'm gonna
give a link to his latest video below
this video he's doing real talk about
issues that most people are not willing
to talk about think of the things that a
lot of people think about but they're
not comfortable really talking about I
really I mean he comes on camera like me
he has no script he does it off the dome
and I've got to say I think he brings a
lot of thought provoking material to the
net I've been really impressed with them
you know especially lately and you know
the funny thing is when I was watching
this video we just put up where he's
talking about veganism and education
what he has to say about it is actually
more rational than what I said about it
I talked about a similar issue several
months ago
but what I had to say was actually based
in emotion it was not terribly rational
people think of my channels ultra
rational but I was saying stuff like
look I really feel bad for these people
who are dropping out of college I feel
bad these people were dropping into high
school in response to this message of
the vegans and I was really talking with
my feelings and that I feel bad for you
like I feel bad for these guys who are
destroying their long-term future as
part of a kind of diet fad run amok but
actually what she just says here bring
something pretty rational detach the
picture so look yeah I've become
infamous within a small circle of people
being the one guy was going to say no
veganism is not a community in this
video I'm saying to you veganism is not
a philosophy but if you think that's a
negative message I've got to say you're
really not listening because the reality
of what I'm telling you is recklessly
optimistic about the future